# Model Creation Steps

## Running the Simulation

- Without UI:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.uml up --build 
```

- With UI:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.uml -f docker-compose.ui.yml up --build 
```

Improving performance:

- In `docker-compose.yml`, lower the value of the `cpus` fields

> The lower the value, however, the longer the simulation will need to run in order to obtain enough packets to use as reference for AI models.

## The `capture.sh` Script

This script is used to capture packets in the Docker networks. It has two different modes: capture by network and capture by container/source.

The first should be used when all packets are assumed to be of the same type (normal vs malicious) or when the distinction doesn't need to be taken into account at this stage. The second should be used when packet types are split by containers (i.e. one container generates either only normal packets or malicious packets). In this mode, packets with spoofed source IP will be placed in a separate file.

## Naive Approach

- Capturing the packet types separately

> Problem: risks introducing capture artifacts into the model, because it does not realistically model simultaneous communication (normal and malicious at the same time).

### Normal Behaviour Capture

1) Set the GEN_ETH_TRAFFIC and GEN_EXTRA_TRAFFIC (if desired) to `"true"` in `docker-compose.yml`.
2) Run the simulation.
3) Run `sudo ./capture.sh`. This should generate a new subfolder in the `captures/` folder with 4 different pcap files.
4) After the desired length of time, terminate `./capture.sh`.
5) Use the `merge_pcap.sh` to create the final pcap file:

```bash
merge_pcap.sh <path to capture folder> <output file name>
```

### Malicious Behaviour Capture

#### Synflood

1) Set the GEN_ETH_TRAFFIC and GEN_EXTRA_TRAFFIC (if desired) to `"true"` in `docker-compose.yml`.
2) Run the simulation.
3) Run `sudo ./capture.sh`.
4) Run the ```synflood``` tool

```bash
sudo ./synflood <victim IP> <victim port>
```

5) Terminate `./capture.sh`.
6) Use the `merge_pcap.sh` to create the final pcap file:

```bash
merge_pcap.sh <path to capture folder> <output file name>
```

#### Eclipse

## Container-Based Approach

### Packet Capture

1) Set all normal blockchain containers to send the desired normal communication types via the environment variables defined in `docker-compose.uml`.
2) Set the `new_eth_node` container to run the desired attacks via environment variables (`GEN_SYNFLOOD_TRAFFIC`). All packets generated by it or generated with a spoofed IP are assumed to be malicious.
3) Run the simulation.
4) Call `sudo ./capture.sh <label> container`.
5) Stop the capture script after enough time has passed.

### Packet Processing

- Handled by the `train_models.sh` as long as the capture files are correctly labelled/named and moved into the appropriate folders.

## Training the Models

1) Separate all pcap files into two folders, depending on whether they are malicious or not.
2) Use the `train_models.py` tool.

```bash
python train_models.py --normal <path to folder of "normal" pcap files> --malicious <path to folder with malicious pcap files>
```

3) Observe and analyse the results.

> Recommendation: use a python environment instead of the system's python installation. Inside it, run `pip install nfstream scikit-learn pandas joblib` first.

## Deploying the Models

The real-time capture script can be launched with:

```bash
sudo python realtime_classifier.py \
    --interface eth0 \
    --model random_forest.joblib \
    --model-type rf \
    --scaler scaler.joblib \
    --features feature_names.joblib
```

This will automatically be run in the containers if `RUN_IDS` is set to `"true"`, creating log files of all malicious packets detected.
